---
title: Glossary
description: Frequently used terms and definitions.
order: .INF
---

Action                         | Shortcut
:----------------------------- | :--------------------------
CBZ                            | A Comic Book Zip archive or comic book reader file (also called sequential image file ) is a type of archive file for the purpose of sequential viewing of images, especially comic books. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comic\_book\_archive">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>
Zip archive                 | ZIP is an archive file format that supports lossless data compression. A .ZIP file may contain one or more files or directories that may have been compressed. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zip\_(file\_format)">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>
Regex (Regular expression)   | A regular expression (abbreviated regex) is a sequence of characters that define a search pattern, mainly for use in pattern matching with strings, or string matching, i.e. "find and replace"-like operations. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular\_expression">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>
Metadata                     | Metadata literally means "data about data". For the purposes of ComicZipper, metadata files are those files created by OS X and Windows with additional extraneous data not necessary for comic book archives. Specifically this includes \_\_MACOSX folders, Thumbs.db and .DS\_Store files, and hidden attribute files starting with ".\_"<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>
Thumbs.db                     | Thumbs.db files are Windows thumbnail cache files. Starting with the IE4 Desktop Update for Win95/98, a thumbnail cache is used to store thumbnail images for Windows Explorer's thumbnail view. This speeds up the display of images as these smaller images do not need to be recalculated every time the user views the folder.  Starting with Window Vista a centralized thumbnail cache is used instead of Thumbs.db files in each directory. While normally hidden on Window systems, these cache files are visible to users on other systems. Since they are not used on other systems (or even later version of Windows), they are normally considered nuisance files. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows\_thumbnail\_cache#Thumbs.db">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>
.DS\_Store                     | .DS\_Store files are used on OS X for storing custom atributes of a folder such as the position of icons or a background image. The name is an abbreviation of Desktop Services Store, reflecting its purpose. It is created and maintained by the Finder application in every folder, and has functions similar to the file desktop.ini in Microsoft Windows. Starting with a full stop (period) character, .DS\_Store files are hidden in Finder and many Unix systems, but is visible on Windows systems. Like Thumbs.db files on non-Windows systems, these are considered nuisance files on non-Mac systems. .DS\_Store files are included in archives, such as ZIP, created by OS X sytem tools, along with other hidden files and directories. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.DS\_Store">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>
\_\_MACOSX                     | Many files on the Mac have two parts: a data fork, and a resource fork. The built in zip utility on the Mac sequesters all of the resource forks into this \_\_MACOSX folder when creating a zip archive. While these metadata files and folders are cleaned up when unzipping with the built-in OS X system tools, other tools do not. Some comic readers do not handle the files well either. Like Thumbs.db and .DS\_Store files, these are considered nuisance files. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AppleSingle\_and\_AppleDouble\_formats">[Read more on Wikipedia...]</a>

