---
title: ComicZipper Overview
description: Overview functionality
order: -.INF
---

##Create comic book archives fast and easy.

Tired of manually zipping and renaming your digital comic books after laboring for hours with (legally) scanning them? Well, no more. With ComicZipper, you can let the your computer do most of the work for you.

A simple drag and drop is all that is required to compress your folders of images into comic book archives for your reading pleasure.

###Features

* Drag and drop folders of images (in JPG, PNG, TIFF, BMP, and/or GIF format) , either onto the application window or the app icon to add items to be converted to comic book archives. You can add ComicZipper to the Dock or the Finder toolbar as a convenient droplet target.
* ComicZipper is smart enough to reject items it cannot convert to comic book archives. Empty folders, folder without images and non-folders will not be processed.
* Optionally excludes metadata files generated by operating systems and some image editors (Thumbs.db, .DS_Store, __MACOSX, .xvpics, etc.) that cause some comic book readers to crash.
* Supports user added filters (simple names and regex expressions) to exclude other unwanted files for the comic book archive(s).
* ComicZipper also likes to clean up and optionally moves the original folders to the trash for you after conversion is complete.

###More Information (ReadMe):

- [Version History](readme-versions.html)
- [System Requirements](readme-sysreq.html)
- [Installing, Updating, and Uninstalling](readme-install.html)
- [License Agreement](readme-license.html)
- [Credits](readme-credits.html)